## Quantifying the Housing Market in Sydney, Australia

In this project, we aimed to build an inference model to analyse what factors affect the price of a house (in AUD) in Sydney, Australia. From the obtained dataframe, we had many explanatory variables to work with, namely number of beds (num_beds), property size, median income of the neighbourhood (suburb_median_income) and the distance from the city center (km_from_cbd). The first step we did was to split the data into two sets: one which contains houses of sizes less than or equal to 2000 and the other with house sizes greater than 200. We try out the different techniques learnt in STAT 306 to generate the best possible model. We make use of Forward Selection to fit the model with the most useful and informative explanatory variables

Data1 (houses of sizes less than 2000) :  After trying many models with different explanatory variables, we decide that model lm_data_fs5 is the one which fits best to our data. After obtaining the summary of the model, we see that all the explanatory variables in this model are significant (p values less than 0.05). The input variables used in this model are suburb_median_income, property_size, km_from_cbd and num_beds. Out all the models that we consisdered  this model gave us the highest adjusted R^2 value. It has a R^2 value of 0.37, which means that nearly 37% of the variation in the model is being captured by our explanatory variable. One reason why this value may appear small is because there many be many other influential feature which affect property price but are out of our data.

Data2 (houses of sizes greater than 2000) : For this dataset as well, we applied the principles of Forward Selection and used our knowledge from STAT 306 to obtain the best possible model. For this data, we select the lm_data2_fs3 model to be our best fit. In our analysis, when we tried to add any more input variables to this model, all the explanatory variables lost their significance and we obtained a bad model. Thus, this model is our best fit. This is also true if we compare their adjusted R^2 values.

In our analysis, when we consisdered the entire dataset (without splitting on the property size), we compared models with property size as variable and log(property_size) as variable and we found that log(property_size) models have higher r^2 squared values. Thus, when considering the entire data, our best fit is lm_log_fs5. 

To further corroborate our findings, we drew up residuals plots. Noticing no pattern on the residual plots, we conclude that for data1 the best, most influential input variables are suburb_median_income, property_size, km_from_cbd and num_beds. For data2, they are num_bed, property_size, suburb_median_income and km_from_cbd. Finally for the entire dataset, we consider suburb_median_income ,log(property_size) , km_from_cbd and num_bed to be the best input variables.
